ZMT GIS Web Portal Functional Specifications


AUTHOR

Patrick Curry


CREATED

2016-05-04


UPDATED

2016-05-09


DISCLAIMER

This document is incomplete and will need to be revisited many times before it is complete.


OVERVIEW/ABSTRACT

This is the document that contains the functional specifications for the ZMT GIS Web Portal project. It's sister document "technical_specifications.txt" contains the project's technical specifications.

The ZMT GIS Web Portal is a website that will allow the visualization of spatial data collected by the ZMT and other sources in a single location. Users will be able to view GIS maps populated with real time data (e.g. weather data, wave data, etc.). Further down the line, after the prototype has been created there will be a way for researchers to add GIS maps to the website. --> More to be added

This website will avoid acronyms. ZMT and GIS are approved acronyms, but they will go no further than that! We will NOT subject the clients to the excruciating task of mentally decoding a drop down list of 20 seemingly identical acronyms WRITTEN IN ALL CAPS.


PAGES/URLS

Index

The index page will be a standard front page to a website. It will have a description of the project and an explanation as to how to use it. It will also have a link to the map, and links to the other pages (contact, about, login, logout, password-reset, etc.).

It is also possible that we do not have an index page. We could just have the main page be the map page, and keep all the other information on the about page.


Map Page

This is the most important page of the website. This is the page that people will view the maps from. They will be able to see a standard background provided by one api or another, and then they will be able to load the gis map files onto the background. It would be nice to be able to change the look of the background with one switch or another, but we will deal with that in time, first things first.

We may have to restrict our maps to one type of geographic coordinate system (NAD83, WGS84, etc.) and decimal degrees (as opposed to Universal Transverse Mercator, UTM) which will keep things much simpler for us.  

This map should also be able to show change over time, perhaps with some sort of a sliding bar or scroller at the bottom. I haven't figured this out just yet. 


Shape File Meta Data Page

The shape file meta data page will important as it will have a description of the file, as well as a way to download the map file or dataset (if the file author makes this available). It would be nice to make it possible to link to a separate page on a separate website if the author would like.

It could also be nice to show a graph or table with time as the independent variable on this page, or something along those lines. 


GIS Object Meta Data Page

This page will be similar to the Shape File Meta Data Page, except that it will be specific to the GIS point, or polygon, or whatever it may be. If it is a point, it will have the GPS coordinates as well as other relevant information that is included by the author. If it is a polygon it should have the area and perimeter, and the rest of the information that the author may have wanted to include


About 

The about page is probably not super important as a description of the site will be on the main Index page. Perhaps this will not even be a necessary page. 


Contact 

This have the way to contact the ZMT, where the ZMT is, and a way to email the ZMT, and a way to email an account that website adminstrator can check.


Register

This will allow authors to set up accounts that allow them to upload and edit information on their specific parts of the website. The login page will probably not be important until we figure out a way to have authors upload and edit information on the shapefiles.


Login 

This will allow map authors to login to their parts of the website, and like the Register page the login page will probably not be important until a bit later in the development of the site.


Logout 

This will be a simple "Are you sure you want to logout" warning page.


Reset Password

This page will probably be set up to go through email authentication, but it could also just require the former password to be entered, then the new password to be entered twice. We should probably keep it simple and make this the same as the 'forgot password' type of link. 


SCENARIOS

Scenario 1: James the botanist.
James is a government funded botanist who is searching the internet for information on a species of tropical plants. Fortunately, James knows about the ZMT. He intelligently goes to the new ZMT GIS Web Portal and enters "Tropicalus plantus" in the search bar. This brings up a list of all ZMT's shapefiles that have to do with the plant species T. plantus. He hits the check mark next to the first shape file, and dots appear on the map at all of the gps points that are in the shape file. One of the points is in an unusual place, James has never heard of T. plantus in this area, so he clicks on the point to get more details. He is brought to a page that shows all of the data pertinant to that point, the researcher who created the shape file included the date of the record, the number of individual plants, and some other relevant information on the area. James is extremely pleased. He hits a button that allows him to download the shapefile to his own computer.


Scenario 2: Maxine the precious highschool student.
Maxine is a very smart student who loves the ocean and all the creatures that live there. She is especially excited about Nudibranchs. For her advanced high school biology class she wants to create a species distribution model for the marine gastropod Elysia rufescens (which is not actually a nudibranch, although it resembles one). Maxine uses Google to search the terms "Tropical Nudibranch Maps" and is delighted to find a link to the ZMT GIS Web Portal. She clicks the link and finds that the main page has a large map view along with a column with a search bar. --> More to be added


NONGOALS


OPEN ISSUES


SIDE NOTES


